# Age Verification

## Introduction to Age Verification (AV)
To support Age Verification (AV), Signaturgruppen Broker has implemented a streamlined and robust interface that allows for an easy, compliant and flexible integration from any system and adaptable to any workflow. 

Data minimization is primary - only the AV result is returned. 

The integration interface is minimal and stable, while the administrative UI allows for flexible customization for integrations. This supports stable integrations that is easily adaptable for changes over time, without the need to changes to the integrating service.

### EU AV and alternatives
The primary AV mechanism supported is the European Wallet supported AV flow, which is specifically tailored to be data minimalistic, secure, anonymous and widely available cross borders across the EU. This includes support for national AV solutions under the EU AV scheme, such as the danish AltID.

Other AV providers such as the danish MitID and e-Boks (non-exhaustive list) is supported and can be configured and enabled for the integration via the administrative UI.

## Supported AV integration variants
Signaturgruppen Broker supports two primary integration protocols for AV integration, namely CIBA and a browser initiated iframe variant. 
These two variants cater to different integration requirements and needs and provides support for most integration scenarios. 

The CIBA protocol support a backend initiated well documented workflow with flexible options and ways to receive the result directly to your backend.
The iframe protocol supports a browser initiated integration that allow for easy and flexibile integration into existing web-based setups that have a harder time to adjust their workflows using the CIBA protocol.

## CIBA
Official docs: [https://openid.net/specs/openid-client-initiated-backchannel-authentication-core-1_0.html](https://openid.net/specs/openid-client-initiated-backchannel-authentication-core-1_0.html).

### Example CIBA request
The following example demonstrates a standard initialization of an AV flow using our CIBA interface.

```
curl --location 'https://pp.idbroker.eu/op/connect/ciba' \
--header 'Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded' \
--data-urlencode 'grant_type=urn:openid:params:grant-type:ciba' \
--data-urlencode 'scope=openid av:18' \
--data-urlencode 'client_id=[your-client-id]' \
--data-urlencode 'client_secret=[your-secret]' \
--data-urlencode 'reference_id=[your-reference-id]'
```

> Note that you can use client assertion signed JWTs instead of posting client secret directly - any OIDC/CIBA supported mechanics for client secret is supported.

Example init response (poll mode):
```
{
  "auth_req_id": "9384B..-1",
  "expires_in": 300,
  "interval": 3,
  "authentication_uri": "https://pp.idbroker.eu/op/connect/authorize?client_id=b.7&request_uri=urn:ietf:params:oauth:request_uri:4BEE..2",
}
```

### Initiating the user experience (UX)
After CIBA initialization the received authentication_uri parameter can be used to setup the desired AV integration.
There is a number of options: 

* URL based redirect (browser and appswitch)
* Scan of QR code with mobile device
* Browserbased iframe integration

#### URL based redirect
A flow can always be started by redirecting the user to the authentication_uri. 
If done via a browserbased interaction with the user ensure to trigger this redirect in a "click event" (user interaction) in order to trigger appswitch handling by the OS, if applicable.

A common way to enable the flow cross device, is to display a QR code. This can be generated by by encoding the authentication_uri response value. 
It is possible to have the init response values include a pre-generated QR code that can be utilized.

#### Scan of QR code with mobile device
If the setup only supports cross-device QR code scanning, then the flow is setup and restricted to displaying a QR code of the **authentication_uri** response value. 
It is possible to have the init response values include a pre-generated QR code that can be utilized.

#### Browserbased iframe integration
If the flow is initiated inside a browser on a user-controlled device, the iframe variant offers an easy and adaptable integration, which automatically adapts to same-device and cross-device flows and which is more dynamic in nature, as the content of the iframe is rendered by Signaturgruppen Broker.
The iframe will inform the parent website when done via Web Messaging, but the result is still returned via the CIBA interface.

### Age scope(s) (av:age)
The requested age, age or older, is requested via the scope parameter **age:[age]**. Requesting credential proving that the user is 18 or older is done with the **age:18** scope value.

Multiple age verification credentials can be requested simultaneously, such as setting both **age:16** and **age:18** in the scope value. This will result both credentials in the result.

### Optional init parameters

| Name | Description |
|--------|--------|
| reference_id        | Optional but recommended. Use reference_id to bind the AV flow to some internal identifier. The reference_id will be included in the signed ID token.  |
| client_notification_token        | Required for ping and push modes, see [official docs](https://openid.net/specs/openid-client-initiated-backchannel-authentication-core-1_0.html#rfc.section.5).  |
| redirect_uri       | Specifies a redirect for the end-user when the flow has completed. Not all AV flows support this, as some wallets might not support redirecting the end-user when done. |
| redirect_state       | When a redirect_uri parameter is specified and the end-user is redirected, the redirect_state will be appended as query/post parameter       |
| redirect_type       | Specifies redirect type. Values: **get** (default) or **post**.   |
| qr_code_response       | Specifies if a pregenerated QR code is returned in the init response, default disabled. Values: **png** or **svg**. Sets the **qr_b64** response value, encoding the QR in specified format as Base64.    |
| flow_type       | Specifies the flow type, default redirect type authentication uri. Values: **authentication_uri** (default) and **iframe**. The iframe option enables the CIBA flow to run inside an iframe, which offers an easy integration for browser-based flows. Redirect+QR type flows is not compatible with iframe based flows.    |

#### Example init response with qr_code_response=png:
```
{
  "auth_req_id": "9384B..-1",
  "expires_in": 300,
  "interval": 3,
  "authentication_uri": "https://pp.idbroker.eu/op/connect/authorize?client_id=b.7&request_uri=urn:ietf:params:oauth:request_uri:4BEE..2",
  "qr_b64": "iVBORw0KGg...",
}
```

#### Example init response with flow_type=iframe:
```
{
  "auth_req_id": "9384B..-1",
  "expires_in": 300,
  "interval": 3,
  "iframe_src":  "https://pp.idbroker.eu/op/iframe/av/?client_id=b.7&request_uri=urn:ietf:params:oauth:request_uri:4BEE..2",
}
```

### CIBA Poll, Ping, and Push Modes
For reference, see the [official documentation for response modes here](https://openid.net/specs/openid-client-initiated-backchannel-authentication-core-1_0.html#rfc.section.5).

The client is default configured for poll mode, but can be set for ping or push mode in the admin UI. Please reach out if you are interested in the ping or push mode.

### Example ID token (CIBA)
A successful flow will result in an ID token, which contains the relevant claims issued for the flow.

```
{
   "iss": "https://pp.idbroker.eu/op",
   "nbf": 1725009225,
   "iat": 1725009225,
   "exp": 1725009525,
   "aud": "[your client id]",
   "reference_id": "[your-reference-id]",
   "sub": "[random sub]",
   "auth_time": 1725009225,
   "idp": "eu_av",
   "transaction_id": "90..32",
   "idtoken_type": "av",
   "av:18": "true"
}
```

## Iframe integration
Documentation under development.

The iframe initiated variant provides a way to initialize the AV flow by setting up an iframe in a browser context and also receive the result from the flow via Web Messaging (postMessage).
This variant enables some web-based integrations that have difficulty with the CIBA backend integration and moves the initialization and receiving of the result from the backend (CIBA) to the browser via Web Messaging.

Details coming..

